## GEOPH 559: Geophyiscal Fluid Dynamics
### Modeling Geophysical Flows

Key Notebooks and Resources in this Repo:
* [GEOPH559_Advection1D.ipynb](./GEOPH559_Advection1D.ipynb): An introduction to numerical modeling through the solution to the 1-D Advection equation, applied to the transport of salt in the ocean. The initial condition corresponds to a positive salinity anomaly toward the left end of the domain. The boundary condition is a background value of salinity at the left, and an open boundary condition at the left.
* [GEOPH559_ShallowWaterSolver1D.ipynb](./GEOPH559_ShallowWaterSolver1D.ipynb): A 1-D solution to the shallow water equations that uses the MacCormack predictor-corrector method. The initial condition corresponds to a Gaussian wave at the beginning of the simulation and a zero velocity field. The boundary conditions correspond to a reflective boundary condition at both ends so that waves encounter the boundaries as a rigid wall and are reflected back into the domain. 
* [GEOPH559_CoupledSWE_Salinity1D.ipynb](./GEOPH559_CoupledSWE_Salinity1D.ipynb): A 1-D model that simulates the coupled 1-D shallow water and advection equations. The shallow water equations are used to develop the velocity field that is then used to advect the salt anomaly. The initial conditions correspond to a co-located combined height and salinity anomaly toward the left side of the domain. This might form through a low-pressure system that evaporated a large amount of water, quickly. The boundary conditions again correspond to reflective boundary conditions at both end of the domain for salinity, wave height, and velocity.
* [GEOPH559_ShallowWaterSolver2D.ipynb](./GEOPH559_ShallowWaterSolver2D.ipynb): Essentially an implementation of the same notebook as the 1-D version from the above, extended into a second dimension. The simulation also includes the effect of Coriolis, the magnitude of which is consistent with the mid-latitudes (~50° N or S). The initial condition is a 2-D Gaussian wave at the beginning of the simulation. There is also an initial momentum nudge (i.e., $u > 0$ and $v > 0$). Boundary conditions are reflective on all sides of the basin. 